<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">

<head xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
    <title>Book Title</title>
    
    
    
    
    

    <link href="../styles/epub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" /></head>
    <body>
      <section id="d1015e379" data-type="chapter"> 
        <h2 id="metadata">Metadata</h2> 
        <div class="dup">Metadata
        </div> 
        <p>Title: Book to the Future</p> 
        <p>Subtitle: a manifesto for book liberation</p> 
        <p>Copyright: anti-copyright Simon Worthington. (CC BY-SA 3.0 DE) see legend. http://www.consortium.io/copyright</p> 
        <p>Publisher: n/a</p> 
        <p>Print, eBook, PDF, HTML5, hybrid</p> 
        <p>Print pages: 178 x 111mm, 44 page, spine 2.769mm, 50.801 gm, cover color matt, interior color, paper 70 gsm, illustrations 12. Printing Lightningsource.</p> 
        <p>DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18166</p> 
        <p>ISBN Print: 978-1-906496-36-4 9781906496364</p> 
        <p>ISBN eBook: 978-1-906496-37-1 9781906496371</p> 
        <p>CIC: n/a</p> 
        <p>LCCN Number: n/a</p> 
        <p>ORCHID: 0000-0002-8579-9717</p> 
        <p>abstract 350 characters: </p> 
        <p>abstract 140 character: </p> 
        <p>abstract 4000 characters: </p> 
        <p>back cover text:</p> 
        <p>BIC:</p> 
        <p>KNTP</p> 
        <p>JNQ</p> 
        <p>BISG:</p> 
        <p>COM065000 Computers : Electronic Publishing</p> 
        <p>COM022000 Computers : Digital Media - Desktop Publishing</p> 
        <p>LAN027000 Language Arts &amp; Disciplines : Publishing</p> 
        <p>Price</p> 
        <p>eBook, Web and digital - free</p> 
        <p>Donation</p> 
        <p>eBook US$5 £5 5€ CA$5 AU$5 (or price channels requires, like Apple $9.99)</p> 
        <p>Apple eBook US$4.99 £4.99 4.99€ CA$4.99 AU$4.99</p> 
        <p>Print US$5 £5 5€ CA$5 AU$5 BR $5 DE $5 RU $5 PL $5</p> 
        <p>Discounts 20-55% depending on channels</p> 
        <p>Canonical URL <a href="http://consortium.io/booktothefuture">http://consortium.io/booktothefuture</a></p> 
        <p><a id="bibtex">BibTeX</a></p> 
        <p class="coder"> @book{worthington_book_2015,<br /> title = {Book to the Future - a book liberation manifesto},<br /> copyright = {anti-copyright Simon Worthington. ({CC} {BY}-{SA} 3.0 {DE}) see legend. http://www.consortium.io/copyright},<br /> isbn = {978-1-906496-36-4},<br /> shorttitle = {Book to the Future},<br /> url = {http://booktothefuture.org/},<br /> abstract = {The Book Liberation Manifesto is an exploration of publishing outside of current corporate constraints and beyond the confines of book piracy. We believe that knowledge should be in free circulation to benefit humankind, which means an equitable and vibrant economy to support publishing, instead of the prevailing capitalist hand-me-down system of Sisyphean economic sustainability. Readers and books have been forced into pirate libraries, while sales channels have been monopolised by the big Internet giants which exact extortionate fees from publishers. We have three proposals. First, publications should be free-at-the-point-of-reading under a variety of open intellectual property regimes. Second, they should become fully digital — in order to facilitate ready reuse, distribution, algorithmic and computational use. Finally, Open Source software for publishing should be treated as public infrastructure, with sustained research and investment. The result of such robust infrastructures will mean lower costs for manufacturing and faster publishing lifecycles, so that publishers and publics will be more readily able to afford to invent new futures. For more information on the Hybrid Publishing Consortium see http://consortium.io/},<br /> language = {English},<br /> author = {Worthington, Simon},<br /> month = may,<br /> year = {2015}<br /> }</p> 
      </section>
      <section data-type="chapter"> 
        <p>The Book Liberation Manifesto is an exploration of publishing outside of current corporate constraints and beyond the confines of book piracy. We believe that knowledge should be in free circulation to benefit humankind, which means an equitable and vibrant economy to support publishing, instead of the prevailing capitalist hand-me-down system of Sisyphean economic sustainability. Readers and books have been forced into pirate libraries, while sales channels have been monopolised by the big Internet giants which exact extortionate fees from publishers. We have three proposals. First, publications should be free-at-the-point-of-reading under a variety of open intellectual property regimes. Second, they should become fully digital — in order to facilitate ready reuse, distribution, algorithmic and computational use. Finally, Open Source software for publishing should be treated as public infrastructure, with sustained research and investment. The result of such robust infrastructures will mean lower costs for manufacturing and faster publishing lifecycles, so that publishers and publics will be more readily able to afford to invent new futures.</p> 
        <p class="ind0">Print ISBN 978 <br />DOI <a href="http://dx.doi.org/">http://dx.doi.org/</a></p> 
      </section></body>
</html>