<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">

<head xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
    <title>Book Title</title>
   
    

    <link href="../styles/epub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" /></head>
    <body>
      <section id="d1001e195" data-type="chapter"> 
        <h2 id="references">References:</h2> 
        <div class="dup">References:
        </div> 
        <p class="ind0">European Commission, Joint Research Centre. Institute for Prospective Technological Studies <a href="http://is.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pages/ISG/documents/BookReportwithcovers.pdf">http://is.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pages/ISG/documents/BookReportwithcovers.pdf</a></p> 
        <p>Open Web Index <a href="http://openwebindex.eu">http://openwebindex.eu</a></p> 
        <p>Tesseract OCR <a href="https://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/">https://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/</a></p> 
        <p>A Personal Computer for Children of All Ages, Alan C. Kay, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, 1972 <a href="http://www.mprove.de/diplom/gui/kay72.html">http://www.mprove.de/diplom/gui/kay72.html</a></p> 
        <p>Paper Machines About Cards &amp; Catalogs, 1548-1929. 2011 by Markus Krajewski, Bauhaus University, Weimar. <a href="http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/paper-machines">http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/paper-machines</a></p> 
        <p>Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy. 1942 by Joseph Schumpeter. <a href="http://digamo.free.fr/capisoc.pdf">http://digamo.free.fr/capisoc.pdf</a></p> 
        <p>Cataloging the World: Paul Otlet and the Birth of the Information Age’, Alex Wright, 2014. <a href="http://www.catalogingtheworld.com">http://www.catalogingtheworld.com</a></p> 
        <p>“Book Details : Uncreative Writing,” accessed February 4, 2015, <a href="http://cup.columbia.edu/book/uncreative-writing/9780231149907">http://cup.columbia.edu/book/uncreative-writing/9780231149907</a>.</p> 
        <p>Operational Transformation algorithm <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operational_transformation">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operational_transformation</a></p> 
        <p>About MongoDB <a href="http://www.mongodb.org">http://www.mongodb.org</a></p> 
        <p>Open Publication Distribution System (OPDS) <a href="http://opds-spec.org/specs/">http://opds-spec.org/specs/</a></p> 
        <p>Open Invention Network (OIN) <a href="http://www.openinventionnetwork.com/">http://www.openinventionnetwork.com/</a></p> 
        <p>“Budapest Open Access Initiative” 2002 <a href="http://www.budapestopenaccessinitiative.org/read">http://www.budapestopenaccessinitiative.org/read</a></p> 
        <p>Accessibility, sustainability, excellence: how to expand access to research publications (aka Finch Report) <a href="http://www.researchinfonet.org/publish/finch/">http://www.researchinfonet.org/publish/finch/</a> 2012 UK OA policy report</p> 
        <p>Aaron's Laws - Law and Justice in a Digital Age. Lawrence Lessig marked his appointment as Roy L. Furman Professor of Law and Leadership at Harvard Law School with a lecture titled "Aaron's Laws: Law and Justice in a Digital Age." The lecture honored the memory and work of Aaron Swartz, the programmer and activist who took his own life on Jan. 11, 2013 at the age of 26. A full transcript can be found here <a href="http://tinyurl.com/qaxpzlq">http://tinyurl.com/qaxpzlq</a> | <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9HAw1i4gOU4">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9HAw1i4gOU4</a></p> 
        <p>The “Wild West” of Academic Publishing <a href="http://harvardmagazine.com/2015/01/the-wild-west-of-academic-publishing">http://harvardmagazine.com/2015/01/the-wild-west-of-academic-publishing</a></p> 
        <p>Reed Elsevier (2014). 2013 Annual Report. Retrieved March 18, 2014 from <a href="http://tinyurl.com/p7osnz5">http://tinyurl.com/p7osnz5</a></p> 
        <p>European Commission, Joint Research Centre. Institute for Prospective Technological Studies <a href="http://is.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pages/ISG/documents/BookReportwithcovers.pdf">http://is.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pages/ISG/documents/BookReportwithcovers.pdf</a></p> 
        <p>On the Economy of Machinery and Manufactures. Charles Babbage (1832), Chapter XXIX - On Combinations of Masters Against the Public, pp. 258-270 <a href="https://archive.org/stream/oneconomyofmachi00babbrich#page/n19/mode/2up">https://archive.org/stream/oneconomyofmachi00babbrich#page/n19/mode/2up</a></p> 
        <p>"Don't worry about what anybody else is going to do… The best way to predict the future is to invent it. Really smart people with reasonable funding can do just about anything that doesn't violate too many of Newton's Laws!" — Alan Kay in 1971. Inventor of Smalltalk which was the inspiration and technical basis for the MacIntosh and subsequent windowing based systems (NextStep, Microsoft Windows 3.1/95/98/NT, X-Windows, Motif, etc...). <a href="http://www.smalltalk.org/alankay.html">http://www.smalltalk.org/alankay.html</a></p> 
      </section></body>
</html>